[Java Regex]https://www.jrebel.com/blog/java-regular-expressions-cheat-sheet
 

[JavaScript Regex] https://docs.microsoft.com/zh-cn/dotnet/standard/base-types/regular-expression-language-quick-reference


正则表达式组成部分：

## CHARACTER CLASSES
[abc] Matches a or b, or c.   

[^abc] Negation,matches everything except a,b,or c.    

[a-c] Range, matches a or b, or c.

[a-c[f-h]] Union, matches a, b, c, f, g, h. 

[a-c&&[b-c]] Intersection,matchesborc. 

[a-c&&[^b-c]] Subtraction, matches a.


## PREDEFINED CHARACTER CLASSES
. Any character.

\d A digit: [0-9]

\D A non-digit: [^0-9]

\s A whitespace character: [ \t\n\x0B\f\r] \S A non-whitespace character: [^\s]

\w A word character: [a-zA-Z_0-9]
\W A non-word character: [^\w]

## BOUNDARY MATCHES
^ The beginning of a line.

$ The end of a line.

\b A word boundary.


\B A non-word boundary.

\A The beginning of the input.

\G The end of the previous match.

\Z The end of the input but for the final terminator, if any. \z The end of the input.

## PATTERN FLAGS


## USEFUL JAVA CLASSES & METHODS
Pattern compile => matches/find

## QUANTIFIERS
 
Greedy | Reluctant|Possessive|Description
-------|-------|-------|-------|
X? | X?? | X?+ | X, once or not at all
X* | X*? | X*+ | X, zero or more times
X+ | X+? | X++ | X, one or more times
X{n} | X{n}? | X{n}+ | X, exactly n times
X{n,} | X{n,}? | X{n,}+ | X, at least n times
X{n,m} | X{n,m}? | X{n,m}+ | X, at least n but no more than m times


**Greedy**  Matches the longest matching group.

**Reluctant**  Mathces the shortest group.

**Possessive** Longest or bust(no backoff)

## GROUPS & BACK REFERENCES
A group is a captured subsequence of characters which may be used later in the expression with a backreference.

- (...)     Defines a group
- \N        Refers to a matched group
- (\d\d)    a group of two digits
- (\d\d)/\1 two digits repeated twice
- \1        Refers to the matched group

## LOGICAL OPERATIONS

- XY    X then Y
- X|Y   X or Y